And thanks for coming.
My name is Thomas Goossens,
and I'm going to talk about Scene Kit.
So what's Scene Kit?
Scene Kit is a new
framework on Mountain Lion,
and its goal is to simplify the
integration of 3D in applications.
There are many use cases
for 3D in applications.
For instance, sometimes it is used in 3D
user interfaces like the
Book Template Chooser in iPhoto,
or CoverFlow in iTunes and Finder,
or Safari Stop Sites, et cetera.
Slideshows and presentations are another
common use case for 3D to make the
animation nicer and more impressive.
Data visualization for
scientist applications or
for the 3D charting keynotes.
This is another use case for 3D.
and games, obviously,
where 3D is commonly used there.
And so for these use cases,
OS X provides some low-level
APIs which are OpenGL and
its associated technologies.
So these APIs are very highly performant.
They have a very strong foundation.
You can do a lot of things with it.
However, since they are low level,
they require a lot of advanced
skills in computer graphics.
And even if you want to do
some relatively simple things,
you will have to write
quite a lot of complex code.
So that's why we
introduced Scene Kit today.
Scene Kit is a high-level API that
is built on top of OpenGL and
that operates on the Scene Graph.
And this is a key difference with OpenGL.
OpenGL is a procedural
API where for every frame,
you call some draw commands,
set some states,
and you do this for each object
frame per frame to render your scene.
With Scene Kit,
you describe a scene once,
you change some properties
of your scene when you want,
but then you let Scene Kit manage
everything and manage
the rendering for you.
Scene Kit is an Objective-C API.
You can use it for all the
use cases I mentioned before.
It is not tied to a particular use case.
It's integrated with Cocoa and
Core Animation for a seamless and
simple integration into applications.
So what can you do with Scene Kit?
Scene Kit essentially allows
you to do three things.
You can load a scene from a file.
You can manipulate the objects
of your scene programmatically.
And finally, you can render that
scene onto the screen.
So let's focus on the first part for now,
loading a 3D file,
and see why it's important
to work with 3D files.
The first reason is because
it's easier to create complex
scenes using 3D software.
I mean, complex geometries or complex
trajectories are usually
created with dedicated tools.
The second reason is that
the more information you
will put into your 3D files,
the less code you will have to write,
and so this will minimize the
number of bugs in your code.
And the last reason is that
working with a 3D file allows
you to work with artists.
The artists work to build the
nicest 3D scene on their site while
you can focus on your code and
so work in parallel with artists.
Scene Kit allows you to load
3D scenes from DAE documents.
DAE stands for Digital Asset Exchange.
It's an XML-based file format.
It is supported by most of the
major 3D software like 3ds Max,
Maya, Modo, Cinema 4D, etc.
And it is adopted in the industry.
For instance, it is used by SketchUp,
or more recently it was adopted by iBooks
and iBooks Auto for their 3D widgets.
A DAE file can describe a lot
of things in your 3D scene.
It can, of course,
describe all the geometry
information of your 3D objects.
But it can also describe some animations,
all the material colors,
references to images,
all the lighting of your scene,
the different point of
views to render your scene,
and some advanced features
like the skinning and morphing.
Loading such DAE file is
straightforward with Scene Kit.
It can be done with just
one single line of code.
So typically,
you will start by getting the URL to
your DAE document using NSBundle.
And once you have your URL,
you can load your scene
using SceneWithURL options
error on the SCNScene class.
This will load the DAE file and return
a new instance of a SCNScene scene.
Once you have your scene loaded,
you may want to render it, for instance,
in a view.
To do that,
Scene Kit provides a SCNView object.
A SCNView is a subclassary
of an NSView that has the
capability to render a 3D scene.
So just allocate a SCNView and then set
your scene previously loaded to your view
using the scene property of the SCNView.
Another way to create a SCNView is
to use Interface Builder.
So to do this,
just drag and drop a SCNView object
from the Interface Builder
library into your user interface,
and then you are done.
So let me show you those two
first things in a quick demo.
So for this first demo,
I will start with a very basic example.
Let's say I want to build a simple
slideshow to show my images from the
iPhoto library or whatever source.
into a nice 3D animation
for my slideshow.
So I asked my artist to build a
nice animation in his 3D tool,
and he sent me a DAE document.
So here, that is myslideshow.dae.
And since no Leopard,
you can preview DAE files
using Quick Look or Preview.
So if I double-click on the DAE file,
I can open it in Preview.
and I can even play the animations to
have an idea of what the designer made.
So here I'm just having a
preview of the DAE document.
So you can see that the DAE file
can describe a lot of things.
It can describe the 3D objects
that are my photo frames.
It describes all the
lighting information,
the movements of the cameras.
So everything here is
described in the DAE file.
So as an engineer,
I understand that I want to integrate
that in my slideshow application.
And that I will have later to replace
the two pictures by some photos
that comes from my iPhoto library,
for instance.
So let's see how to integrate
that into an application.
So here is a new-- make
it slightly bigger.
So here's a new application,
a new project that
I created from scratch.
So there is no code at all yet.
So the only thing I did was to link
with Scene Kit in the build phases here.
And I added my DAE document
to my resources.
So here you can see mysledshow.dae
in the sidebar of Xcode.
So the first thing I would want to do
is to edit the interface builder file.
So here is my window.
And from the interface builder library,
I can search for my
SCN view that is here.
I can drag and drop it into my window,
make it slightly bigger.
And the SCN view in Interface Builder
comes from with an inspector here
that allows you to set some options.
For instance,
I can directly type the name of
the file I want to load at launch.
So here I want to load myslideshow.dae.
It auto-completes.
And I can also set up a few steps,
like I want the animations
to play at launch and loop.
So here, if I run my application.
I see that I see the 3D animation
playing in my application.
And so this was done without
having to write any line of code.
So let's switch back to the slides.
So you can render a scene into
a SCN view if you want to render
that in a window with views.
But it also provides SCN layers,
a SCN layer, if you want to render a 3D
scene into a layer tree.
and SCN Renderer if you want
to render the 3D scene into
an arbitrary OpenGL context.
So that's for loading
and rendering a scene.
Now you may want to manipulate
the objects in your scene to add
some interactivity to all that,
and that's what I'm going to show now.
So first, Scene Kit allows you to access
all the objects and all the
properties of your scene.
So you can, of course, move, scale,
and rotate the objects in your scene,
but you can also add some animations,
change the colors or change the textures,
adjust the lighting, etc., etc.
To do this,
you need to know what are the objects,
the data structures that
describe a 3D scene,
and that's what I'm going to show now.
So a 3D scene is represented
by the SCNScene class,
and the SCNScene class
has a tree of nodes.
A node is represented
by the SCNNode class,
and the tree of node is similar to a
tree of layers in Core Animation or
a tree of views in the AppKit.
A node has a position, rotation,
and scale that define a 3D
coordinate system that is
relative to its parent node.
So it's exactly like a layer
that has a frame that represents
a 2D coordinate system that is
relative to its super layer.
So if you want to, for instance,
move a node in the 3D space,
you just need to set its
position to a given vector.
So for instance,
here I move my node to the origin.
I set its position to the vector 0, 0, 0.
and managing the hierarchy of nodes is
very similar to managing a hierarchy
of layers or views with the usual add
child and remove from parent methods.
Then a node doesn't represent
anything in the 3D space.
I mean, nothing that can be
rendered on the screen.
It's just a location in 3D space on
which you can attach some attributes.
The attributes you can attach
to a node are the following:
You can attach a camera,
you can attach a light, or a geometry.
I will explain each of them,
but you can already notice that you can
share one attribute to multiple nodes.
This can be useful if you want
a given attribute to be visible
at different locations in the
3D scene at the same time.
So let's see the first one: Camera.
A camera is a point of view
that is used by the renderers,
so by the SCN view, SCN layer,
or SCN renderer.
The illustration here shows a
single scene rendered by Scene Kit,
but rendered from
different point of views.
The camera also has a
couple of parameters,
like the field of view, for instance,
if you want to increase or
decrease the perspective effect.
The second attribute you can
attach to a node are the lights.
There are different kinds of lights.
For instance,
the ambient light is a light that
illuminates in every direction,
and so it illuminates equally
all the objects in the scene.
An omni light originates
from a single point.
A directional light illuminates
in a given direction.
And a spotlight illuminates,
originates from a single point but
spreads outward in a cone direction.
So lights have a couple of parameters
like the attenuation distances,
the intensity, the color, et cetera.
But one thing important about light is
that it illuminates the entire scene
and not only the node it is attached to.
The last attribute you can
attach to a node is a geometry,
and the geometry represents a surface
that can be rendered on the screen.
The surface is made of triangles that are
connected together to build the surface.
So triangles are connected to vertices.
So vertices have a normal that
indicates the direction of the surface.
Geometry may have some UVs,
sometimes named texture coordinates,
that tells how an image should
be mapped onto the 3D object.
And last, geometry as an array of
materials that defines the
final appearance of the surface.
Note that it is an array of materials and
not just a material because sometimes a
geometry is split into several elements,
and each element can
have a separate material.
So now the materials.
The material defines the
appearance of the surface.
It is represented by
the SCN material class.
And the material is made
of eight properties.
A property is represented by
the SCNMaterialProperty class.
And each property can
have a color or an image.
The head properties of a
material are the following.
And the combination of the settings
of these eight properties produce
the final appearance of your surface.
So for instance,
the diffuse here can be considered
as the base color of your material.
More precisely,
it's the color that the material will
reflect when it is hit by lights.
It can be an image like here,
or it can be a simple color if you
set an NS color or CG color ref.
Then the ambient is the color
that the material reflects when
it is hit by ambient light only.
It can be, again, an image or a color.
The specular and shininess controls the
specular highlight of shiny materials.
The shininess controls the
shape of the specular highlight.
Reflective is an image that is used as a
reflective environment for your material.
The transparent property
allows you to set,
to define the transparent
areas of your material.
The Normal property allows
you to set a normal map,
sometimes called Bump Map,
which is a popular technique to
add some details to your surface
without having to add more polygons.
The Multiply property allows you,
for instance,
to set some light maps or shadow maps,
which is a popular technique
that designers are familiar with.
And last,
the Emission is an emissive color.
That means that it can be
visible even when the material
doesn't receive any light.
So for instance here,
the circle image is visible
even on the sides of the cube
that doesn't receive any light,
and it's because it is emissive.
So with materials,
we can control how it reacts to light.
And this can be done with some
lighting models that Scene Kit support.
With a constant lighting model,
the constant lighting model
doesn't react to any light.
It's just a uniform color.
Lambert React to Light but
has no specular highlight,
and Blinn and Fong have a
different specular highlight.
So now, to sum up and give an example
of all these data structures,
let's say I want to change a
material of one on my object.
I will first get the
geometry from my node.
Then I will create a new material,
let's say here a red material,
by setting the diffuse
contents to a red color.
And then I can set this material
to my geometry as the first
material by setting it to the first
material property of my geometry.
So that's for the overview of all
the data structures in Scene Kit.
Now I hand over to Amaury to
talk about the steps to create
an application using Scene Kit.
Thank you.
Thanks, Thomas.
Hi.
My name is Amaury,
and I think it's time for you to
build your first app using Scene Kit.
As said before,
you will use DAE documents that
describe an entire 3D scene.
OS X has a built-in
support for these files,
and as said before,
Preview and Quick Look have allowed you
to open and play Scene Snow Leopard.
But for many reasons,
viewers are not sufficient,
so today we are introducing
a new Scene Kit editor.
The new Scene Kit Editor is
built into Xcode.
It allows you to have a deep
comprehension of your 3D scene.
This is really useful when dealing
with files you do not know,
either downloaded from an online
library or simply handed by your artist.
First, the editor allows you to have
an idea of your scene graph.
Check the name of your nodes,
check what their attributes
are and how they are positioned
relative to each other.
The Editor allows you to preview
animations and test performances.
We wanted to make it really useful,
really easy for you to
collaborate with your artist.
And we think the Editor will be a
default of your typical workflow.
Artists will design objects in
their favorite authoring tool,
improve them with great materials,
add lights and cameras to their scene.
Using the editor,
they will be able to have
a preview of how the scene
will be rendered in your app.
And since they are artists,
and since they know what looks good,
we wanted to provide them with a
tool to make fine visual adjustments.
The editor allows them
to tweak materials,
and by iterating between the
editor and the authoring tool,
they will be able to craft the
perfect-looking scene for your app.
Then you, as a developer, take over.
You will have the scene right within
all your other application files.
And by iterating between
the editor and your code,
you will be able to efficiently add
the programmatic layer that will make
the scene dynamic and your app great.
So let's have a demo.
So, starting from Thomas' demo,
let's have a look at this scene.
The first thing you see is a viewport.
It gives you a preview of
what you will get in your app.
On the left side,
you have the scene graph.
Let's take a look at this node,
the floor node.
I can tell it has geometry attached to
it because of this little teapot icon.
The node just below has
a camera attached to it,
and somewhere in each of the nodes,
there's a light.
Let's have a look.
Oh, there are three nodes,
and each of them has a
light attached to it.
But let's get back to the frame.
In addition to the inspector
you're familiar with,
Scene Kit adds three new of them:
the Node Inspector,
the Node Attributes Inspector,
and the Material Inspector.
The Node Inspector allows us to
inspect the many properties of a node.
For example,
I could change this name's name.
and other developers have been working
on the Scene Kit for a long time.
I could also change its rotation.
Whatever, I think best suits.
Let's go back to the light.
I want to improve the scene
because I don't like this spot.
Using the node attributes inspector,
I can see this one is a spot.
I'm happy with its color,
but not with its illumination code.
I can easily tweak its
outer angle to make it good.
Now I have a scene that
I think looks perfect.
What I want to do is add some
programmatic layer to change
the pictures that are displayed.
To do this,
we will probably have to tweak materials.
So let's take a look.
This one has three materials:
one for the wood,
one for the paper frame,
and one for the picture.
We have a reflective map
for the glossy effect,
and the actual picture is
set in the diffuse property.
Okay, that's all we need to know
to add a programmatic layer.
First,
First, we have the name of our node,
then second material,
and then diffuse property.
We will also have to change the pic...
We also have to change the
picture displayed at the back.
So let's rename this guy.
Let's go to our App Delegate.
The first thing we will want to do
is have an entry point to our scene.
This will be done by accessing
the root node of our scene.
Self.SceneView.Scene.RootNode.
We have an IBO clip set to the scene,
which is named SceneView.
On this root node,
We will call the child node
we've named recursively
selector to retrieve our node,
photo1.
And we will do the same
for the horizontal frame.
The next thing we want to do
is to retrieve the materials.
We'll take the second material
for the vertical frame.
We'll do the same for
the horizontal frame.
Now, let's add some debug material.
[Transcript missing]
With my resources, I have these pictures.
And now I want to show this one,
this one, this one, and this one.
Let's get rid of this data code.
And the way we will
display the new images,
[Transcript missing]
and set the diffuse property of
our material to be that image.
Of course,
We do the same for the
horizontal picture.
We want to loop.
That is to mean we want
to display pictures,
and when they are at
the back of the scene,
we will change them so that the
user doesn't notice anything.
So let's go back.
to our scene and checks for its duration.
Seven seconds, 33, okay.
Animation duration will be 7:33 seconds.
And we will set up a timer.
To call that method, that swaps images.
But because this is for
the frontmost frame,
we will have to add a slight
delay to change the images
when they are at the back.
We do this.
We did this at the middle
of the animation duration.
And of course, we do this for the
second picture as well.
[Transcript missing]
That's how easy it is
to build a dynamic app,
dynamic 3D app using Scene Kit.
So let's have a quick recap.
You will start by retrieving
nodes using their names that
you can check in the editor.
You will retrieve the materials
and finally you will tweak
them to make them look great.
And with that,
I'm calling Aymeric to talk about
more advanced features in Scene Kit.
Thank you.
Thanks Amaury.
Hi everyone,
I'm Amaury and I'm going to show you
how to go further with Scene Kit.
First, I will talk about one of the
main features of Scene Kit:
animations.
Then,
I will present several ways to customize
its rendering using OpenGL or GLSL.
Then,
I browse through the various parametric
geometries Scene Kit has to offer for
constructing programmatically your scene.
And finally,
I will review the possible interactions
between Scene Kit and Core Animation.
It is crucial for a 3D engine to
provide a solid animation system.
People expect to see things
move and change fluidly in 3D.
And Scene Kit does provide
an amazing animation system.
Almost every property of
every object are animatable.
And this will be done in two ways.
Either using implicit animation.
By implicit, I mean that no actual
animation objects are created.
As you will see in the
code example later,
you just have to change the animation,
the property you want to animate.
The second way is using
explicit animations.
This time,
an actual animation object is created
and played when the time is right.
I want to stress out that
Scene Kit uses the same programming
model as Core Animation,
easing the adoption for those
of you that already know it.
Here is an example of
an implicit animation.
So first,
you have to begin a transaction.
Please note that this is an
SCN transaction and not a CA transaction,
but it has exactly the same API.
So for example,
if I want to set its duration, I use the
Set Animation Duration selector.
Ben, change any property on
any object you need.
And finally, commit the transaction.
The animation will start right away
in its own thread and its own pace.
You can also add a completion block
to be notified when your animation
is complete or has been interrupted.
Scene Kit also supports
explicit animations.
This time, explicit animations are actual
objects that are created upfront
and played at your convenience.
For example, animations created with 3D
modeling tools such as Maya or
Max and exported to DAE files are
loaded as explicit animations.
Scene Kit supports three
kinds of explicit animation.
The simplest one is CA basic animation.
It will allow you to animate one
property of one object at a time.
Then we also have keyframe animation.
This time,
instead of just providing a final target,
you will provide intermediate
values along with key times.
The last type of animation
supported is the animation group.
And it will allow you to
synchronize multiple animations
on multiple properties.
Here you can see an animation
controlling the position,
along with another
controlling the opacity.
Let's see an example of an explicit
animation creation and usage
here with a CA basic animation.
First, you have to create your
animation targeting the
property you want to animate.
Here, the opacity again.
Then you configure it
by setting its duration,
but you could also set its begin time,
its speed,
or timing function if you want.
Then set the destination
value for your property.
Finally, set your animation to the
node you want to animate.
The animation will start right away,
but always in its own thread.
So you've seen several ways to animate
your objects and their properties.
Let's now talk about rendering.
Thomas talked earlier about all
the different rendering aspects
of Scene Kit covering different
types of lights and a large
number of material properties.
While we made the Scene Kit renderer
as complete as possible,
we know that it won't
suit everyone's needs.
Therefore, we provided three different
ways to you guys to inject
custom OpenGL and GLSL code
Inside Scene Kit Renderer, at the scene,
at the node, or on a material level.
First of all, on the core set level,
you will be allowed to inject code
before or after the scene rendering
using a scene delegate renderer.
It will allow you, for example,
to have an animated background or to
layer a 2D interface over your scene.
Let's see how this will be done.
The effect you just saw is a full-screen
quad rendered with a custom GLSL shader.
In the setup phase,
we created our full-screen quad and
stored it in a vertex array object,
along with a vertex and fragment
shader that we also wrote.
This is a selector that is called
before the actual scene rendering.
When it is called,
we ensure that no vertex buffer object,
no texture, or no program are bound.
So we just have to bind what we need.
So here,
I bind my vertex object on my program,
and I don't forget to unbind
it at the end of the delegate.
Concerning over GL states,
you will have to set
them to your convenience,
but restore them to Scene Kit's
default after a while.
Here, I don't want my background
effect to alter the depth buffer,
so I disable the depth testing
and restore it at the end.
Next, if you want to render something
in the scene among other objects,
you may want to use the
NodeRenderer delegate.
It will allow you, for example,
to create position special
effects like particle system
that simulate fire or smoke.
Let's see an example of that.
In this scene, the torch is rendered
with such a delegate,
and everything else is rendered
using Scene Kit's own renderer,
and the two cohabit nicely.
This is a selector that is called on
each node that are using your delegate.
The node is provided, obviously,
along with the necessary transform
needed to render the scene as the
views of projection matrices that are
given in the arguments dictionary.
Lastly, if you want to have a specific
appearance for your materials,
you can always provide custom
programs to Scene Kit materials.
This is done by writing your
own vertex and fragment shader.
Here is an example of such an effect,
a simple like Fresnel effect
that could not be achieved using
standard Scene Kit materials.
Let's see how that can be done.
First, you have to create an
SCN program instance.
Then it is the programmer's
responsibility to load its vertex
and fragment shader code as a string,
usually from the application bundle.
and you assign it to
your custom programs,
and finally assign your program to
the material you want to customize.
These are the shader curves
of the effect you just saw.
I won't go into the
details of the shader,
but I want you to notice that there
are two special kind of inputs.
The first kind of parameters are the ones
that are automatically set by Scene Kit.
These are the geometry
attributes like position,
normals, and texture coordinates,
and the transforms like the models,
the view, and projection matrices
that are given as uniforms.
To make this work,
you have to bind your own GLSL variable
with Scene Kit on Semantic.
And this is how it's done.
For example,
here we are binding the SCN geometry
source semantic vertex with
our GLSL variable A position.
The other kind of special
inputs are the ones that are
not bound to Scene Kit Semantic.
These are usually the custom
parameters for your programs.
And this is the selector that
is called for each one of them.
Here we only have one,
the U-Frenel factor that we
set to some arbitrary values.
So we've seen several ways to customize
the rendering using OpenGL and GLSL.
I will now talk about populating your
scene with parametric geometries.
If you're not really at ease
with a 3D modeling tool,
or if you don't have one,
you'll be happy to know that
Scene Kit does provide ready-to-use
and easy-to-use parametric geometries.
It starts with a bunch of parametric
primitives such as planes,
cubes, cylinders, tubes, spheres,
and so on,
and they are really easy to use.
Here's an example of them.
Here, I just create an SCN cylinder,
giving it a radius and a height,
adjust its tessellation factor,
and then set it on the geometry
in the node in my scene.
That's it.
Scene Kit also provides dynamic 3D text
with the same text capabilities as OS X.
Here again, really simple,
just create an SCN text instance,
set its font using a
standard NSFont object,
assign it, type in a text as a string,
or you can even use an NS attributed
string if you want to have
different styles rendered,
like italic or bold.
Adjust it-- Thank you.
I just said extrusion and
their materials because there's
several materials for the front,
back, and extrusion and
chamfering part of the text.
And all of this is animatable.
And insert it into your scene, and voila.
You will also be happy to have
a ready-to-use reflective floor,
infinite floor.
Here again, really simple.
Just create an SCN floor object,
adjust its reflectivity
and its follow-up factors,
assign any kind of material you want.
Here we would just want
a black color floor.
And set it in your scene.
Your world scene will reflect
on it with nothing else to do.
Lastly, you can create your own
meshes by providing position,
normals, and texture coordinates.
It can come in handy if you have your
own mesh loader or if you want to do
some data visualization application.
One last nice thing about
Scene Kit I wanted to talk about is its
tight integration with Core Animation.
And it works both ways.
That means that you can render a
scene inside a Core Animation layer
and the other way around,
that you can have a
Core Animation layer used as a texture.
Let's see that through some samples.
Here, I create an instance on an ancient
layer and assign it a scene,
then insert it in an existing
Core Animation layer tree.
As the SCN layer is a subclass
of a Core Animation layer,
I can use any effect on it.
Here you can see a white
border color on a drop shadow.
But I could also use
any Core Image filter.
The other way,
here I have an animation of
multiple core animation layers,
and I set this layer tree as a
diffuse content of my material.
Scene Kit will automatically
create a texture and update
it only when it has to.
will now illustrate all of these
features we've seen so far in a demo.
So for this demo,
we wanted to create an example
of a 3D user interface displaying
photo albums in 3D photo frames.
So you've already seen the photo
frames in the previous demos,
but this time we cloned it
multiple times to reflect the
event in the iPhoto library.
Then the frames are arranged in a
radial layout among a reflective floor,
and they are lit by several lights.
One of them is casting shadow.
And I can browse through them by swiping.
or by clicking on it using
the Scene Kit picking feature.
On the top of the window,
there is a search field that will
allow me to filter for my frames.
For example, up.
Using implicit animation,
the visible set of frames have
been reduced in a smaller circle
with just a few lines of code.
Let's filter some more.
There again, using implicit animation,
the entire layout has changed
into a cover flow-like manner,
and I can still swipe
through it smoothly.
OK, one more filtering.
Yet another layout.
Here you can see that the lighting and
the camera position have such change,
always using implicit animation.
And I can switch--
Between my front and back frames
using explicit animation because
of a more complex movement.
This is the photo album
I wanted to show you.
As we are using a
Core Animation layer for the content,
[Transcript missing]
One last thing I wanted to
show you with this demo is
the custom rendering facility.
Here you can see some fireflies
that are rendered using the node
renderer delegate I just talked about.
As there are lights
attached to these nodes,
you can see that they impact
the lighting of the scene.
So, that's it for the demo.
Okay, let's do a quick recap.
So you've seen how to give life
to your scene using animation.
It's really easy, they're really fast,
so use them extensively.
We've also seen how to
customize your rendering using
delegates and custom programs.
Use them wisely.
We've seen how to populate
easily your scene by using the
provided parametric geometries.
And finally, how to get the best of both
worlds by using the tight
integration of Core Animation.
For more information,
please contact our evangelists,
Alan Shaffer and Mike Jerevitz.
You can find online our reference API.
And we have set up Scene Kit dedicated
forum on our DevForums website.